6.5 Building Personas
TODO: move to appendix?
Personas are descriptions of fictional users of the product, incorporating as-
sumptions and optinally data for a user group. They aim to give developers
17
6.5. Building Personas
Figure 6.1: 2x2 Opportunity Matrix during the early phases of development
and designers more context and depict real potential users, which makes it eas-
ier for a developer to empathize with the user. The following three Role-based
Personas are derived from 6.1 and the outcomes of the interviews, based on
the description of Personas in [5, pp. 403-405]
6.5.1 John - Purple Expeirence Product Developer
Background and Skills
John (34) is a senior Angular Web Developer at Sprylab, working there for two
years. He was born in Berlin and lives in Lichterfelde with his wife and mostly
works from home. He is passionate about Angular, Typescript and Developer
Experience in general, studied Computer Science at the Beuth Hochschule and
hosts Angular conferences.
Goals and work with the Editor
• Test newly developed features and the related configurations
• Configure test apps for development and QA purposes
• Support in case Project Developers like <TODO> encounter problems
• John works with the editor multiple times a week
18
6.5.2 Steffi - Project Developer
Background and Skills
Steffi (23) studies media informatics and works as a working student at Spry-
lab since a year. This is her first job in the industry and she is learning new
things every day. Her skills include writing CSS and understanding modern
web technologies, but she still struggles using native and custom debugging
tools if something goes wrong.
Goals and work with the Editor
• Configure new apps based on existing templates and adapt them to cus-
tomer’s requirements
• Add new components or change data sources for existing apps
• Add custom HTML pages or Javascript snippets to intergrate external
services
• Change styles, color schemas or icons when a customer has a rebranding
• Steffi uses the editor as a primary tool for her work
6.5.3 Karsten - IT department at a publishing house
Background and Skills
Karsten (46) worked in the publishing industry for 20 years, but only during
the last years his company, aga magazine publisher, tries to catch up with
the digital development and trends. He is still struggling with his role and is
thankful for every trick or tool that makes his life managing the digital prod-
ucts easier.
Goals and work with the Editor
• Exchange logos and colors when the magazines he supervies get a re-
design
• Add new ads to different views when a new campaign starts
• Manage URLs to external sites when they change
• Karsten uses the Editor once a month on average